ielts scoring how does it work
i'm alex from e2 language i'm an ielts
expert
a former examiner and in this video i'm
going to explain
the whole thing to you we'll go through
listening
reading speaking and writing i'll show
you how your scores are worked out
and at the end i'll show you how your
overall band score is calculated
the ielts scoring system is relatively
simple compared to other language tests
it goes on a band scale from zero to
nine
where zero means you didn't turn up to
the test
one is labeled as a non-user and it goes
all the way up to band
nine expert user notice
expert user not native speaker
let's start by looking at ielts
listening
now in ielts listening there are 40
questions which means
a maximum of 40 points because one
question equals
one point and ielts helpfully gives
us a conversion table for equating
your score out of 40 to a band
and it looks like this and in fact this
is a simplified version
for a more detailed version you can
download it from the description below
by the way this is the same for general
and academic you both do the same
listening test
now on the left here we've got the score
out of 40 and on the right is
the band equivalent so imagine you get
correct out of 40 then you're gonna
score
band five now this is not
set in stone these scores can go up and
down a little bit
depending on the difficulty of the test
but ielts tells us this is a pretty
good guide so for those of you who are
aiming for
seven you should be aiming at 30
or more correct every time you do a
listening test
and aiming at eight that needs to come
up to
35 out of 40. let's move on to ielts
reading now as you probably know
general ielts and academic ielts have
two
different reading tests so it's not like
listening where everybody does the same
these are different tests and they're
scored slightly differently as well
so here are the tables we've got general
on the left academic on the right
and you'll notice that on the general
side to score band 7
you need 34 or around 34 out of 40
correct whereas for academic
it's a bit lower just 30
out of 40. so even though the general
test
is considered easier it's certainly
shorter than the academic test
you need to get more points out of 40
to get the same score so it's not really
easier
and the same goes of course for band
eight for general
you need to be right up 38 plus and for
academic
just 35. so whenever you do a listening
test or a reading test you should use
these tables
to see how close you are to your band
goal
ielts speaking ielts speaking is a
completely different
story whereas the listing and reading
tests
are automatically marked often by the
computer because there's a right answer
and a wrong answer
when it comes to speaking and writing as
well these are
human graded according to a criteria
scale
so there is a little bit of subjectivity
involved here
a speaking examiner uses a criteria
sheet
like this but these are the public band
descriptors
i hope you've already seen them if not
check out our video
on the marking criteria focusing on
fluency and coherence
which is the first criterion so the
examiner gives you a score for your
fluency and coherence
again from zero at the bottom up to nine
expert user at the top
you're also scored on your lexical
resource that's your vocab
your grammatical range and accuracy and
your pronunciation
when you get your score report you'll
have one single score
for speaking like 5.5 or 8
hopefully but actually the examiner
gives you
four separate scores the examiner does
not award you that final score
so they might give you something like
this band 8 for fluency and coherence 7
for lexical resource 6 for grammar
and 7 for pronunciation so your score is
not always going to be
flat they can go up and down and how do
we calculate that final score well it's
fairly simple you just add them all
together
eight plus seven plus six plus seven
that equals 28
divide that by four and in this case it
comes to a nice round number
seven sometimes it will come to a not
such a round number like
7.75 in that case it will come down
to 7.5 let's go into ielts writing
works in much the same way but in the
writing test
there are two tasks so there's a
slightly
added complication here again the
examiner uses criteria to score your
work
there's a separate one for task one and
for task two
and each one has four criteria task
achievement
in task two this is called task response
but in task one task achievement
coherence and cohesion
lexical resource and grammatical range
and accuracy
for a more detailed breakdown of this
criteria in your course at e2 language
we have
videos on task 1 for general and
academic and you can find
our video about the task 2 marking
criteria here on youtube
so for each task the calculation works
just like
speaking where you get your four scores
added together divided by
four and it's usually rounded down to
the nearest
0.5 so you might end up with scores that
look like this
task 1 could be six point five task two
where this where the candidate has got
eight six
five five will come out to a band six
now here's the complication task one is
worth
one third of your score and task two is
worth two-thirds of your score so to
figure out your
overall band score and by the way the
examiner doesn't have anything to do
with this this happens
after your exam the examiner simply
gives you those four scores for each
task
but this is how it works task one
plus task two plus task two so two
thirds of the weight
for task two one third of the weight for
task one
equals whatever and divide that by three
so in this case we've got task one six
point five
task two six and add six again
that comes to eighteen point five which
we divide by three
and it comes to 6.166
this will come down to a band 6 overall
for writing
and that's the score that you get on
your score report so you have no
idea unless you get excellent feedback
from someone like e2 you will have no
idea what your criteria scores are
you will also have no idea what your
task one score is compared to your task
two score
so let's look at the overall score
calculation so you've got now
four separate scores reading listening
speaking
writing how do you get your end score
you can probably guess pretty simple
just add your scores together reading
plus writing
plus listening plus speaking in this
case
let's imagine these are the scores six
six point five
seven and eight this comes to a total of
27.5 and then we divide that by four to
get the average
so in this case it's 6.875
now in the individual test writing and
speaking that score will usually be
rounded
down but for your overall score it will
go to the closest
0.5 so in this case up
to band 7 overall
and that's it it's not that complicated
after all don't forget to download your
score conversion chart in the
description below
and practice hard make sure you get
feedback on those subjective
skills speaking and writing and come and
study with me and my amazing team
at e2language.com see you there
[Music]
you